# EDA
In this session, we will briefly introduce the datasets we used in this project and provide some basic exploratory data analysis for the datasets we used, in order for readers to get familiar with and have a basic understanding of the datasets. As we mentioned above, this project mainly used three datasets:yelp_academic_dataset_review, yelp_academic_dataset_business, and yelp_academic_dataset_tip. The size of each dataset is 3.46 GB, 117.9 MB and 185 MB respectively.  In the following paragraph, we will discuss each dataset and provide descriptive statistics individually. Finally, we will provide more detailed exploratory data analysis for both reviews and tips data for the health & medical business as this is the main subset of data we applied in the later analysis.

The yelp_academic_dataset_business contains information about businesses that are registered on yelp. The information it provides contains the unique id for each business, the geographic information of each business (e.g. detailed address, city, state, postal code, and neighbourhood), the status of each business (whether it is still open, and opening hours), the category of the business (e.g. restaurant or salon), the customer feedback (e.g. star ratings and the number of customer reviews) of each business. This dataset is mainly used to identify the subset of text data, customer reviews and tips, we aim to use in the later analysis. The dataset shows that there are 122505 businesses that are still open. Within these open businesses, the majority are categorised into food-related and beauty-related businesses. In the later section, we will mainly analyse reviews and tips left for health & medical businesses.

The yelp_academic_dataset_review contains information on customer reviews for businesses. It provides information about the business of the review, the exact content of reviews, the star ratings consumers give alongside each review, and other users’ comments on the review. Within this dataset, there are 4153150 non-empty reviews that can be used for text analysis. The average length of each review is around 691 words which are relatively long. This indicates that consumers may provide detailed comments about the business. In other words, the information contains in each review is relatively large, and there are lots of text mining researchers can do for this dataset. There is no significant difference in the length of ratings left by consumers and the rating they give for the business. Whilst, on average, consumers tend to leave longer reviews if they provide lower star ratings for the business. In other words, consumers may be more willing to provide detailed reviews for businesses if they have a relatively negative feeling about the business. 

The yelp_academic_dataset_tip contains information on tips left by consumers for businesses. Tips can be regarded as much shorter reviews in length.  It provides information about the author id of each tip, the business id of each tip, the content of each tip and the date of each tip. Within the dataset, there are 94660 non-empty tips, and the average length of each tip is 63 words. The average length of a tip is much shorter than a review, therefore, the amount of information contained in each tip is expected to be less than a review. The most frequently appeared words in tips are adjectives, and they tend to be direct comments. 

As in the later analysis, we will mainly use reviews and tips left for health & medical businesses, I will also provide some exploratory analysis for reviews and tips for health & medical businesses. Within the dataset, there are 9870 health & medical businesses, which numbers account for 8% of the total number of businesses in yelp data. The geographic distribution of health & medical business is highly skewed. More than 20 % of health & medical businesses are located in Las Vegas and 13.7% are located in Phoenix. The top five cities have more than 50% health & medical business. The geographic distribution of health & medical business is more skewed by state. Arizona and Nevada account for more than 70% of health businesses. In terms of average stars rating, there are 30% of health & medical business received 5 stars rating and there are more than 60% of businesses received 4 and more stars ratings. There are 113000 reviews that are left by consumers for health and medical business and the average length of review is 657 words, which is similar to the average review length. In terms of the number of reviews left by year, there exists a clear increasing trend in the number of reviews left by consumers for health and medical businesses since 2009, with the total reviews number nearly doubling every year. The total number of tips for health and medical business is only 16137, which number is nearly ten times less than the number of reviews. The average length of each tip is only 80 words, which number is also much less than reviews by 8 times. Therefore, it is obvious that there exists more information within the reviews data for the health & medical business than tips.
